I am Nestor Makhno. Born in 1888
in Huliaipole, current-day Ukraine.
I am a Ukrainian anarchist revolutionary
and the commander of the Revolutionary
Insurgent Army of Ukraine from 1917 to 1921.
My family was a poor peasant family in Huliaipole.
I was the youngest of five children born to
former serfs who had been emancipated in 1861.
In school I proved to be a gifted student,
excelling in arithmetic and reading.
However, my family's extreme poverty forced me
to begin working in the fields full-time, which
led me to develop a sort of rage, resentment,
and even hatred for the wealthy property owner.
In 1905, a predominantly peasant phenomenon grew
into a mass social movement near my hometown.
Over the course of the Russian Civil
War, this movement came to exert a
strong influence over large areas of southern
Ukraine. I and the movement's leadership were
anarcho-communists and attempted to guide
the movement along these ideological lines.
I was aggressively opposed to all factions
that sought to impose their authority over
southern Ukraine, battling in succession the
forces of the Ukrainian People's Republic,
Central Powers, White Army, Red Army, and other
smaller forces led by various Ukrainian atamans.
My supporters attempted to reorganize social
and economic life along anarchist lines,
including the establishment of communes on former
landed estates. However, the disruption of the
civil war precluded a stable territorial
base for any long-term social experiments.
In the aftermath of the White Army's defeat in
Crimea in November 1920, the Bolsheviks initiated
a military campaign against my forces. After
an extended period of open resistance against
the Red Army, I was sent to exile in Paris.
During this period, I wrote numerous memoirs and
articles for radical newspapers. I also played an
important role in the development of platformism
and the debates around the 1926 Organizational
Platform of the General Union of Anarchists.
I died in 1934 in Paris at the age of 45 from
tuberculosis-related causes. I dreamed about
Ukrainians living in dignity, peace, and harmony.
I hope my nation is eternally flourishing.